.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE/pull_request_template.md, before:

## Hey, I just made a Pull Request!

<!-- Please describe what you added, and add a screenshot if possible.
     That makes it easier to understand the change so we can :shipit: faster. -->

#### :heavy_check_mark: Checklist

<!--- Please include the following in your Pull Request when applicable: -->

-   [ ] You have read the [Contributor Guide](https://www.ourchitecture.io/hello-cloud/contribute/)
-   [ ] Added or updated documentation
-   [ ] Tests for new functionality and regression tests for bug fixes (not applicable for documentation-only changes)
-   [ ] Screenshots attached (for UI changes) \*For documentation, please run the documentation locally (e.g. `make start-docs`) and provide a screenshot of the changes. For code, consider a brief animated gif that demonstrates the changes of 5 seconds or less. ([ScreenToGif](https://www.screentogif.com/) is a tool that can help)
-   [ ] Ideally, all your commit messages follow the [Conventional Commit format](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/)
    -   "feat: The new feature you're adding to a particular application"
    -   "fix: A bug fix"
    -   "style: Feature and updates related to styling"
    -   "refactor: Refactoring a specific section of the codebase"
    -   "test: Everything related to testing"
    -   "docs: Everything related to documentation"
    -   "chore: Regular code maintenance. [You can also use emojis to represent commit types]"
-   [ ] Ideally, all your commits have a `Signed-off-by` line in the message. ([more info](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#developer-certificate-of-origin))

#### Notes

-   For documentation changes, a build will automatically check your changes and generate screenshots (see the "Artifacts" section under the build's "Summary")
-   The [contributor guide](https://www.ourchitecture.io/hello-cloud/contribute/) was designed to help you proceed

Commit message:

chore: mention pr review team in pr request
Signed-off-by: Eric Swanson <ericis@users.noreply.github.com>

.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE/pull_request_template.md, after:

## Hey, I just made a Pull Request!

<!-- Please describe what you added, and add a screenshot if possible.
     That makes it easier to understand the change so we can :shipit: faster. -->

#### :heavy_check_mark: Checklist

<!--- Please include the following in your Pull Request when applicable: -->

-   [ ] You have read the [Contributor Guide](https://www.ourchitecture.io/hello-cloud/contribute/)
-   [ ] Added or updated documentation
-   [ ] Tests for new functionality and regression tests for bug fixes (not applicable for documentation-only changes)
-   [ ] Screenshots attached (for UI changes) \*For documentation, please run the documentation locally (e.g. `make start-docs`) and provide a screenshot of the changes. For code, consider a brief animated gif that demonstrates the changes of 5 seconds or less. ([ScreenToGif](https://www.screentogif.com/) is a tool that can help)
-   [ ] Ideally, all your commit messages follow the [Conventional Commit format](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/)
    -   "feat: The new feature you're adding to a particular application"
    -   "fix: A bug fix"
    -   "style: Feature and updates related to styling"
    -   "refactor: Refactoring a specific section of the codebase"
    -   "test: Everything related to testing"
    -   "docs: Everything related to documentation"
    -   "chore: Regular code maintenance. [You can also use emojis to represent commit types]"
-   [ ] Ideally, all your commits have a `Signed-off-by` line in the message. ([more info](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#developer-certificate-of-origin))

#### Notes

-   The @ourchitecture/hello-cloud-maintainers team will review this request at their earliest convenience
-   For documentation changes, a build will automatically check your changes and generate screenshots (see the "Artifacts" section under the build's "Summary")
-   The [contributor guide](https://www.ourchitecture.io/hello-cloud/contribute/) was designed to help you proceed
