.github/CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

👋🏼 Welcome and we are glad you are interested in contributing!

## Development

This project attempts to support a variety of developer tooling choices while maintaining a standard that everyone can test against.

### Prerequisites

**⚠️ Windows users: 👉🏼** _task automation assumes a POSIX-compatible shell with Linux commands that work across most distributions and macOS. As a result, using [Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL2)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install) is recommended with a Linux distribution like Debian, Ubuntu, or Kali Linux. You may also use [Git BASH](https://gitforwindows.org/) with [`make` for Git BASH](https://gist.github.com/evanwill/0207876c3243bbb6863e65ec5dc3f058#make) installed or [cygwin](https://cygwin.com/) with [`make` for cygwin](https://cygwin.com/cgi-bin2/package-cat.cgi?file=x86_64%2Fmake%2Fmake-4.3-1&grep=make) installed. You could also use a Linux virtual machine running on [Windows Hyper-V](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/virtualization/hyper-v-on-windows/quick-start/enable-hyper-v), [Oracle VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/), or even using a [VS Code "devcontainer"](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers)._

**Tools:**

- [`git`](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git) for source control.
- [`yarn`](https://yarnpkg.com/) or [`node`](https://nodejs.org/) are required to run the project _\*`yarn` is recommended_. The version of `yarn` is "pinned" in ".yarnrc" and will be automatically selected and used by the `yarn` command.
- [`nvm`](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) can make switching between specific versions of `node`, `npm`, and `npx` easier across projects for a more consistent project experience across machines. The version of `node` is "pinned" in ".nvmrc" and will be automatically selected and used by the `nvm use` command.
- [`podman`](https://podman.io/getting-started/), [`docker`](https://www.docker.com/get-started), or `docker` with [`docker-compose`](https://docs.docker.com/compose/gettingstarted/) are required to build the production container image.
- [GNU `make`](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/) is used by DevOps pipelines Continuous Integration (CI) and Deployment (CD) to execute tasks. For consistency, you may choose to use this as well.
- [VS `code`](https://code.visualstudio.com/) may be used for an improved developer experience with support for project-specific settings, extensions, and tasks.

### Executing tasks

Task execution consistency can be critical when developing and triaging code. While many tools are supported, "there is only one way" for production, including the DevOps pipeline automation tasks. Local development machines and even DevOps pipeline machines have different Operating Systems, middleware tools, and configurations; they cannot be trusted to be reliable. Therefore, the "one way" is through containers and the default tool of choice is `docker` 🐳; while this project would prefer to use a completely free and open source ecosystem like `podman` 🥰💖, `docker` is well established, virtually ubiquitous on most local and DevOps machines, and [mostly free](https://www.docker.com/blog/updating-product-subscriptions/) 💸.

All automation tasks are abstracted behind `make` ⚙️ command targets. This enables task consistency across projects and tooling. You may run most commands using your choice of `podman`, `docker`, `docker-compose`, `yarn`, or `node` / `npm` by adding a "dev_tool" parameter to the `make` command, where the value of the parameter matches your preferred tool (e.g. `make install dev_tool=yarn` or `make start dev_tool=podman`). However, `docker` is recommended as the default tool used by DevOps pipeline tasks for production build, test, and deploy.

If you do not wish to use `make` (e.g. `yarn && yarn start`), review the commands in the "./makefile" and construct the appropriate command or simply try out what you expect to work.

### Running tasks

1. Clone the repository with the command `git clone --depth=1 https://github.com/ericis/hello-cloud`
2. Navigate to the project in a terminal or open your favorite editor
3. Build the project with the command `make` or `make install` (`make build` will also work if your forget)
4. Start the system with the command `make start` (`make run` , `make up` and `make serve` will also work if your forget)
5. Stop the system with the default command `make stop` (`make down` will also work if your forget). If you use an alternative tool running as a foreground process (e.g. `yarn start`), simply kill the process (e.g. <kbd>Command</kbd> + <kbd>.</kbd> on macOS or <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>C</kbd> on Windows).
6. Clean up temporary task artifacts with the command `make clean` (`make uninstall` will also work if your forget)

Commit message:

docs: optional use of git-town
Signed-off-by: Eric Swanson <ericis@users.noreply.github.com>

.github/CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

👋🏼 Welcome and we are glad you are interested in contributing!

## Development

This project attempts to support a variety of developer tooling choices while maintaining a standard that everyone can test against.

### Prerequisites

**⚠️ Windows users: 👉🏼** _task automation assumes a POSIX-compatible shell with Linux commands that work across most distributions and macOS. As a result, using [Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL2)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install) is recommended with a Linux distribution like Debian, Ubuntu, or Kali Linux. You may also use [Git BASH](https://gitforwindows.org/) with [`make` for Git BASH](https://gist.github.com/evanwill/0207876c3243bbb6863e65ec5dc3f058#make) installed or [cygwin](https://cygwin.com/) with [`make` for cygwin](https://cygwin.com/cgi-bin2/package-cat.cgi?file=x86_64%2Fmake%2Fmake-4.3-1&grep=make) installed. You could also use a Linux virtual machine running on [Windows Hyper-V](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/virtualization/hyper-v-on-windows/quick-start/enable-hyper-v), [Oracle VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/), or even using a [VS Code "devcontainer"](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers)._

**Tools:**

- [`git`](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git) for source control.
- [`git-town`](https://www.git-town.com/install.html) may be used for improved developer workflow.
- [`yarn`](https://yarnpkg.com/) or [`node`](https://nodejs.org/) are required to run the project _\*`yarn` is recommended_. The version of `yarn` is "pinned" in ".yarnrc" and will be automatically selected and used by the `yarn` command.
- [`nvm`](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) can make switching between specific versions of `node`, `npm`, and `npx` easier across projects for a more consistent project experience across machines. The version of `node` is "pinned" in ".nvmrc" and will be automatically selected and used by the `nvm use` command.
- [`podman`](https://podman.io/getting-started/), [`docker`](https://www.docker.com/get-started), or `docker` with [`docker-compose`](https://docs.docker.com/compose/gettingstarted/) are required to build the production container image.
- [GNU `make`](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/) is used by DevOps pipelines Continuous Integration (CI) and Deployment (CD) to execute tasks. For consistency, you may choose to use this as well.
- [VS `code`](https://code.visualstudio.com/) may be used for an improved developer experience with support for project-specific settings, extensions, and tasks.

### Executing tasks

Task execution consistency can be critical when developing and triaging code. While many tools are supported, "there is only one way" for production, including the DevOps pipeline automation tasks. Local development machines and even DevOps pipeline machines have different Operating Systems, middleware tools, and configurations; they cannot be trusted to be reliable. Therefore, the "one way" is through containers and the default tool of choice is `docker` 🐳; while this project would prefer to use a completely free and open source ecosystem like `podman` 🥰💖, `docker` is well established, virtually ubiquitous on most local and DevOps machines, and [mostly free](https://www.docker.com/blog/updating-product-subscriptions/) 💸.

All automation tasks are abstracted behind `make` ⚙️ command targets. This enables task consistency across projects and tooling. You may run most commands using your choice of `podman`, `docker`, `docker-compose`, `yarn`, or `node` / `npm` by adding a "dev_tool" parameter to the `make` command, where the value of the parameter matches your preferred tool (e.g. `make install dev_tool=yarn` or `make start dev_tool=podman`). However, `docker` is recommended as the default tool used by DevOps pipeline tasks for production build, test, and deploy.

If you do not wish to use `make` (e.g. `yarn && yarn start`), review the commands in the "./makefile" and construct the appropriate command or simply try out what you expect to work.

### Running tasks

1. Clone the repository with the command `git clone --depth=1 https://github.com/ericis/hello-cloud`
2. Navigate to the project in a terminal or open your favorite editor
3. Build the project with the command `make` or `make install` (`make build` will also work if your forget)
4. Start the system with the command `make start` (`make run` , `make up` and `make serve` will also work if your forget)
5. Stop the system with the default command `make stop` (`make down` will also work if your forget). If you use an alternative tool running as a foreground process (e.g. `yarn start`), simply kill the process (e.g. <kbd>Command</kbd> + <kbd>.</kbd> on macOS or <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>C</kbd> on Windows).
6. Clean up temporary task artifacts with the command `make clean` (`make uninstall` will also work if your forget)
